# Superstore-EDA
### About
   The goal of every supermarket is to make a profit. This is achieved when more goods are sold and the turnover is high. A major challenge to increasing sales of a supermarket lies in the ability of the manager to forecast sales patterns and know readily beforehand when to order and replenish inventories as well as plan for manpower and staff. The amount of sales data has steadily been on the increase in recent years and the ability to leverage this gold of data separates high-performing supermarkets from the others. One of the most valuable assets a supermarket can have is data generated by customers as they interact with various supermarkets.
     
### Dataset:

   The dataset has attribute columns that determine the risk of having cervical cancer. The dataset has 9994 rows and 21 columns.
    The columns in the dataset are:

   'Row ID', 'Order ID', 'Order Date', 'Ship Date', 'Ship Mode',
   'Customer ID', 'Customer Name', 'Segment', 'Country', 'City', 'State',
   'Postal Code', 'Region', 'Product ID', 'Category', 'Sub-Category',
   'Product Name', 'Sales', 'Quantity', 'Discount', 'Profit’


### Conclusion:
 CONCLUSION:

* Technological Sales bring the highest profit.
* Furniture category, even with high sales is less profitable due to discounts.
* Even after having the highest discounted commodities, Office Supplies Category performs well in the profit-sales ratio. 
* Copiers and Phones are most profitable, while Table Sales are causing discount.
* West region has the most sales and profits, while the central region gives the least profits. 
* If the sales in the South are increased, it could bring more profits to the superstore.
* Segmentwise, consumer products have been the most profitable, while Home office has been the least profitable.

Now for the correlation between discount ,sales and profits- We observe that for the products having a discount range between 0-20% are sold the highest. 
In spite of less discount , sales of copiers are high. Blinders ,furnishings and appliances have a considerable discount, but still do not ensure more sale in comparison.
Discounts more than 30% of the commodity price have caused losses.

Hence we can conclude that there is no significant correlation between more discount and profit. 



